AI Assistant Brain Project
Overview
The AI Assistant Brain Project is a self-contained memory system (the "Brain") for an AI assistant running on your desktop. This system is designed to serve as a comprehensive knowledge hub by:

Storing and retrieving static knowledge (facts, creative content, etc.),
Logging and recalling conversation history, and
Cataloging personal facts and opinions with flexible tagging.
The eventual goal is to integrate a local large language model (LLM) (e.g., deepseek‑r1:8B via ollama) that leverages this memory to generate personalized, context‑aware responses. Until then, the system uses dummy responses to simulate LLM output while maintaining a robust, testable, and documented foundation.

Project Goals
Robust Memory Storage:
Develop a scalable, query‑efficient database schema that logs conversation history, stores static knowledge chunks, and catalogs personal facts with metadata and tags.

Dynamic Retrieval:
Implement a retrieval pipeline that uses techniques like cosine similarity to rank and select the most relevant knowledge chunks and conversation history for a given query.

Advanced Prompt Construction:
Create a prompt builder that assembles a complete prompt by combining an instructional header, retrieved static knowledge, recent conversation history, and the current query. This prompt will be used in future LLM integrations.

Unified Desktop UI:
Build an all‑in‑one Tkinter-based desktop user interface that allows:

Query submission and display of simulated LLM responses,
Memory management (viewing, refreshing, editing, and manual tagging of stored data),
(Future) Document upload and data ingestion directly from the UI.
Testing & Logging:
Provide comprehensive unit and integration tests for all components, along with detailed logging, to ensure reliability and ease of debugging.

Extensibility:
Design the project so that future enhancements (such as file processing, additional tagging, and eventual LLM integration) can be added with minimal disruption to existing functionality.

Directory Structure
Below is a typical folder structure for the project:

graphql
Copy
Folder PATH listing for volume Windows
Volume serial number is 2A75-D6CA
C:.
ª   files.db
ª   main.py
ª   README.md
ª   READMEtxt.txt
ª   structure.txt
ª   The Plan.txt
ª   
+---AI_Project_Brain
ª   ª   advanced_prompt_builder.py
ª   ª   app - Copy (2).py
ª   ª   app.log
ª   ª   app.py
ª   ª   brain.py
ª   ª   conversation_logger.py
ª   ª   conversation_retriever.py
ª   ª   dummy test data.txt
ª   ª   dummydata2.txt
ª   ª   dummy_retrieval.py
ª   ª   files.db
ª   ª   More next steps 2-9-25.txt
ª   ª   more next steps.txt
ª   ª   next step for RAG.txt
ª   ª   test_files.db
ª   ª   __init__.py
ª   ª   
ª   +---AI_Brain_Project
ª   ª       .gitattributes
ª   ª       
ª   +---uploads
ª   ª       app.log
ª   ª       dummydata2.txt
ª   ª       dummy_test_data.txt
ª   ª       More_next_steps_2-9-25.txt
ª   ª       next_step_for_RAG.txt
ª   ª       
ª   +---__pycache__
ª           advanced_prompt_builder.cpython-311.pyc
ª           conversation_logger.cpython-311.pyc
ª           conversation_retriever.cpython-311.pyc
ª           dummy_retrieval.cpython-311.pyc
ª           __init__.cpython-311.pyc
ª           
+---AI_Project_database
ª   ª   auto_tagging.py
ª   ª   __init__.py
ª   ª   
ª   +---__pycache__
ª           auto_tagging.cpython-311.pyc
ª           __init__.cpython-311.pyc
ª           
+---AI_Project_inference
ª       inference.py
ª       __init__.py
ª       
+---AI_Project_ui
ª   ª   desktop_ui.py
ª   ª   __init__.py
ª   ª   
ª   +---__pycache__
ª           desktop_ui.cpython-311.pyc
ª           __init__.cpython-311.pyc
ª           
+---tests
        files.db
        test_advanced_prompt_builder.py
        test_conversation_logger.py
        test_conversation_retriever.py
        test_desktop_ui.py
        test_dummy_retrieval.py
        

Requirements
Python: Version 3.11.9 or higher.
SQLite3: Built into Python for database operations.
Tkinter: For the desktop UI (usually bundled with Python on Windows).
Third-party Packages:
numpy
scikit-learn
sentence-transformers
(Install via pip install numpy scikit-learn sentence-transformers)
Running the Project
From the Project Root:
Open a terminal and navigate to C:\Users\Ryan\Desktop\AI_Assistant.
Run the Main UI:
bash
Copy
python main.py
This will launch the AI Assistant UI where you can submit queries and manage memory.
Configuration
Logging:
Global logging is configured in main.py using Python's logging module. Adjust the logging level (e.g., DEBUG for development, INFO or WARNING for production) as needed.

Database Location:
The SQLite database (files.db) is located in the AI_Project_Brain folder. All modules reference this file using absolute paths calculated from the project root.

Testing
Unit and Integration Tests:
The project includes a tests folder containing unit tests for each module (advanced_prompt_builder, conversation_logger, conversation_retriever, dummy_retrieval, and a basic desktop UI test).
Running Tests:
From the project root, execute:
bash
Copy
python -m unittest discover tests
This will run all tests and report the results in the console.
Recent Development and Debugging Notes
Auto-Tagging Integration
Module Creation:
An auto_tagging.py module was created (located in AI_Project_database) to perform embedding-based auto‑tagging using the SentenceTransformer model (all-MiniLM-L6-v2).

The module defines a TAG_DESCRIPTIONS dictionary that maps tag names (e.g., "scientific", "historical", "technology", "art", etc.) to concise descriptions.
Embeddings for each tag description are pre‑computed and stored in tag_embeddings.
The function get_suggested_tags(text, threshold) computes an embedding for the input text and compares it against each tag’s embedding using cosine similarity. Tags whose similarity exceeds the threshold are returned, sorted by similarity.
Debugging Process:

Initially, duplicate definitions of get_suggested_tags were present; these were removed, and all pycache folders were cleared to ensure the latest version was in use.
Extensive debug print statements were added (printing the first 100 characters of input text, success of embedding generation, similarity scores with increased decimal precision, and the final suggestions list) to diagnose issues.
In isolation, testing in a Python shell confirmed that for a sample text like “I love painting, drawing, and creating visual art,” the function returned a full list of tags with appropriate similarity scores (e.g., "art" at ~0.71).
In the UI integration (within the Edit Record window), the auto‑tag function was initially set to a high threshold (0.5), resulting in no suggestions. Lowering the threshold (e.g., to 0.15) in the UI resolved this, and suggestions were correctly displayed.
Debug prints in the UI’s auto‑tag function confirmed that the text input was properly passed and that the suggestions list was non‑empty.
Bulk Editing Enhancements
Bulk Edit Feature:
The Memory Management window now supports bulk editing of tags:
The Treeview was updated with selectmode="extended" to allow multiple record selection.
A "Bulk Edit Selected" button was added, which opens a new window. In this window, the user can choose a tag from a dropdown and apply it (or remove it) across all selected records.
A helper function get_current_tags(record_id) retrieves the current tags from the database, and update_record_tags(record_id, new_tags) (in conversation_logger.py) updates only the tags field.
Debug logging confirms that bulk updates occur correctly and that the Memory Management window refreshes with updated tags.
Additional UI Improvements
Editing & Tagging UI:
The Edit Record window includes:
Fields for editing user and assistant messages.
A dropdown for selecting approved tags.
Buttons for adding and removing tags.
An integrated "Auto-Tag" button that calls the auto-tagging module.
After debugging, the threshold in the UI was adjusted to ensure that relevant suggestions (e.g., "art" for art‑related input) are returned and applied.
Settings Panel Enhancements:
The Settings panel allows for:
Adjusting retrieval parameters (e.g., number of knowledge chunks and conversation history limit).
Managing the global list of approved tags.
Viewing untagged records.
Reviewing auto‑tagged entries (with functionality to mark them as reviewed).
Lessons Learned and Considerations
Threshold Tuning:
The auto‑tag function’s threshold is critical. It was initially set too high in the UI, so careful tuning (and possibly dynamic adjustment in the future) is needed to balance sensitivity and relevance.
Debugging Practices:
Using detailed debug prints and clearing pycache folders helped isolate issues between module versions and ensure the latest code was in use.
Modularity and Integration:
The project’s modular structure (separating UI, database logic, and auto‑tagging functionality) has proven effective. Each module can be independently tested and debugged, which is crucial for maintaining scalability as more advanced features (such as embedding-based auto‑tagging and eventual LLM integration) are added.
Future Roadmap
LLM Integration (Phase 6):
Replace dummy responses with calls to a local LLM (e.g., deepseek‑r1:8B via ollama) using a defined interface.
Enhanced File Processing:
Develop modules for ingesting various file types (e.g., .txt, .pdf, .docx, images via OCR) into the knowledge base.
Expanded Memory Management UI:
Improve the UI to support editing, manual tagging, and viewinAI Assistant Brain Project
Overview
The AI Assistant Brain Project is a self-contained memory system (the "Brain") for an AI assistant running on your desktop. This system is designed to serve as a comprehensive knowledge hub by:

Storing and retrieving static knowledge (facts, creative content, etc.),
Logging and recalling conversation history, and
Cataloging personal facts and opinions with flexible tagging.
The eventual goal is to integrate a local large language model (LLM) (e.g., deepseek‑r1:8B via ollama) that leverages this memory to generate personalized, context‑aware responses. Until then, the system uses dummy responses to simulate LLM output while maintaining a robust, testable, and documented foundation.

Project Goals
Robust Memory Storage:
Develop a scalable, query‑efficient database schema that logs conversation history, stores static knowledge chunks, and catalogs personal facts with metadata and tags.

Dynamic Retrieval:
Implement a retrieval pipeline that uses techniques like cosine similarity to rank and select the most relevant knowledge chunks and conversation history for a given query.

Advanced Prompt Construction:
Create a prompt builder that assembles a complete prompt by combining an instructional header, retrieved static knowledge, recent conversation history, and the current query. This prompt will be used in future LLM integrations.

Unified Desktop UI:
Build an all‑in‑one Tkinter-based desktop user interface that allows:

Query submission and display of simulated LLM responses,
Memory management (viewing, refreshing, editing, and manual tagging of stored data),
(Future) Document upload and data ingestion directly from the UI.
Testing & Logging:
Provide comprehensive unit and integration tests for all components, along with detailed logging, to ensure reliability and ease of debugging.

Extensibility:
Design the project so that future enhancements (such as file processing, additional tagging, and eventual LLM integration) can be added with minimal disruption to existing functionality.

Directory Structure
Below is a typical folder structure for the project (updated):

makefile
Copy
C:.
│   app.log                 # Runtime log (generated; not part of source control)
│   config.py               # Central configuration (paths, thresholds, tags, etc.)
│   files.db                # Development database (can be generated; may be excluded)
│   main.py                 # Entry point to start both Flask server and desktop UI
│   output.txt              # (Temporary output file – consider removing)
│   README.md               # This documentation
│   READMEtxt.txt           # (Duplicate; remove or archive)
│   structure.txt           # (File structure snapshot; optional)
│   text_utils.py           # Shared functions for file reading, chunking, embeddings
│   The Plan.txt            # (Planning notes; archive or remove)
│
├── AI_Project_Brain
│   │   advanced_prompt_builder.py
│   │   app.py              # Consolidated Flask app (brain.py removed)
│   │   conversation_logger.py
│   │   conversation_retriever.py
│   │   dummy_retrieval.py
│   │   __init__.py
│   │   files.db            # (If duplicate, consider removing)
│   │   ... (other planning notes and temporary files to be pruned)
│   ├── AI_Brain_Project   # (Contains only .gitattributes – merge or remove if redundant)
│   ├── uploads            # (If redundant with uploads in project root, consolidate to one)
│   └── __pycache__       # (Remove from version control)
│
├── AI_Project_database
│   │   auto_tagging.py
│   │   __init__.py
│   └── __pycache__
│
├── AI_Project_inference
│       inference.py
│       __init__.py
│
├── AI_Project_ui
│   │   desktop_ui.py
│   │   __init__.py
│   └── __pycache__
│
├── tests
│       test_advanced_prompt_builder.py
│       test_conversation_logger.py
│       test_conversation_retriever.py
│       test_desktop_ui.py
│       test_dummy_retrieval.py
│       files.db         # (If not needed, remove or ignore)
│
└── uploads               # (Consolidated uploads folder)
Note: Several temporary files (logs, planning documents, duplicate databases, pycache folders) have been pruned or are recommended for removal to keep the repository lean.

Requirements
Python: Version 3.11.9 or higher.
SQLite3: Built into Python for database operations.
Tkinter: For the desktop UI (usually bundled with Python on Windows).
Third-party Packages:
numpy
scikit-learn
sentence-transformers
(Install via pip install numpy scikit-learn sentence-transformers)
Running the Project
From the project root:

Open a terminal and navigate to the project directory.
Run the main UI:
bash
Copy
python main.py
This starts both the Flask server (in the background, on port 5000) and the desktop UI.
Configuration
Logging:
Global logging is configured in main.py using Python's logging module. Adjust the logging level (DEBUG for development, INFO or WARNING for production) as needed.

Database Location:
The SQLite database (files.db) is defined in config.py and is located in the AI_Project_Brain folder. All modules reference this file using absolute paths calculated from the project root.

File Uploads:
The uploads folder is defined in config.py and used by the Flask app.

Auto-Tag Threshold:
The auto-tag threshold is now adjustable via the desktop UI settings. The default value is set in the CONFIG dictionary in desktop_ui.py and can be updated from the settings panel.

Testing
Unit and Integration Tests:
The project includes a tests folder with unit tests for each module (advanced_prompt_builder, conversation_logger, conversation_retriever, dummy_retrieval, and desktop UI).

Running Tests:
From the project root, execute:

bash
Copy
python -m unittest discover tests
This command runs all tests and reports results in the console.

Recent Development and Debugging Notes
Consolidation and Optimization
Redundant Code:
Duplicate implementations for file reading, text chunking, and embedding generation were consolidated into text_utils.py.

Centralized Configuration:
Configuration values (paths, thresholds, approved tags, etc.) have been moved into config.py.

Unified Flask App:
The functionality previously split between app.py and brain.py has been merged into a single, improved app.py. The redundant brain.py has been removed.

Auto-Tagging Enhancements
Auto-Tag Module:
The auto_tagging.py module (in AI_Project_database) uses the SentenceTransformer to compute embeddings and cosine similarity for tag suggestions based on a threshold.

Threshold Tuning:
The auto-tag threshold was initially too high, leading to no suggestions. This was resolved by lowering the threshold and adding a UI option (in desktop_ui.py) to adjust the threshold dynamically via CONFIG["auto_tag_threshold"].

UI and Settings Improvements
Desktop UI:
The Tkinter-based UI (in desktop_ui.py) now includes:
An auto-tag threshold field in the settings panel.
A larger settings window (600x500) to accommodate the new fields and buttons.
Bulk editing features for tagging.
Roadblocks and Resolutions
Path and Import Issues:
Adding sys.path modifications in each module ensured that shared modules (config.py, text_utils.py) could be imported via absolute paths.

Redundancy Pruning:
We reviewed and pruned extraneous files (duplicate databases, planning notes, pycache folders) to create a leaner repository.

Integration Consistency:
By centralizing configuration and shared functionality, we reduced the risk of conflicting code and improved the project’s maintainability.

Future Roadmap
LLM Integration (Phase 6):
Replace dummy responses with calls to a local LLM (e.g., deepseek‑r1:8B via ollama) using a defined interface.

Enhanced File Processing:
Develop modules for ingesting various file types (e.g., .txt, .pdf, .docx, images via OCR) into the knowledge base.

Expanded Memory Management UI:
Further improve the UI to support editing, manual tagging, and detailed viewing of conversation history and personal facts.

Session and Context Management:
Implement features to handle long conversation histories (e.g., summarization, pruning).

Refinement of Auto-Tagging:
Fine-tune tag descriptions and thresholds, and possibly extend the auto-tagging module for more context-aware suggestions.

Continuous Integration:
Enhance documentation and set up CI/CD pipelines to automatically run tests on new commits.

Project Vision
This project aims to create a robust, flexible "Brain" for an AI assistant that can handle a wide range of topics—from factual knowledge to creative content. The system is designed to be modular, easily testable, and extensible so that future enhancements (especially local LLM integration) can be added with minimal disruption. Even as new features are added, the memory system remains the core component, enabling the assistant to develop a consistent personality and in-depth knowledge base.

Conclusion
The AI Assistant Brain Project has been optimized for scalability and adaptability. Through careful consolidation of modules, removal of redundancies, and improvements in the user interface and configuration management, the project is now leaner, faster, and easier to maintain. This README provides a detailed snapshot of the current state, decisions made, and lessons learned during development, ensuring that any future assistant or collaborator can pick up exactly where we left off.

Feel free to modify or expand any section as the project evolves.g of conversation history and personal facts.
Session and Context Management Enhancements:
Implement features to handle long conversation histories (e.g., summarization, pruning).
Embedding-Based Auto-Tagging Refinement:
Fine-tune tag descriptions and thresholds.
Optionally, extend the auto-tagging module to use embedding-based semantic similarity so that contextually relevant tags are suggested even if explicit keywords are not present.
Log auto-tagging events for later review and mark them as reviewed through the UI.
Comprehensive Documentation and Continuous Integration:
Enhance documentation and set up CI/CD pipelines to run tests automatically on new commits.
Project Vision
This project aims to create a robust, flexible "Brain" for an AI assistant that can handle a wide range of topics—from factual knowledge to creative content. The system is designed to be modular, easily testable, and extensible, so that eventually it can integrate seamlessly with an LLM to provide intelligent, context‑aware responses. Even as new features are added, the memory system remains the core component, allowing the assistant to develop a consistent personality and in-depth knowledge base.

Conclusion
The AI Assistant Brain Project is built with scalability and adaptability in mind. By ensuring thorough testing, detailed logging, and clear documentation (including our recent debugging and feature enhancements), this project is well-prepared for future enhancements—especially the integration of a powerful local LLM—without sacrificing the robustness of the core memory system.

This document captures the technical details and debugging process up to this point. It is intended as a reference for future sessions to ensure continuity and to serve as a record of decisions made and lessons learned during development.

Feel free to modify or expand any section as the project evolves. This README is intended to provide a complete snapshot of the current state, vision, and technical decisions for the project so that any future assistant or collaborator can pick up exactly where we left off.

Addendum: Recent UI Refinements and Development (2025-02-XX)
Accomplishments in This Session
Query Box Clearing Issue:

Hurdle: The user query/prompt input was not clearing after submission, whether activated via the Enter key or by clicking the Submit button.
Resolution: We verified that the submit_query() method included the command:
python
Copy
self.query_entry.delete(0, tk.END)
and added logging to confirm that the deletion was executed. After debugging, the issue was resolved so that the query entry is now cleared immediately after submission.
Window Ordering and Standardization:

Hurdle: Multiple option windows (for editing records, settings, memory management, etc.) were not following a predictable order when closed; the main UI window was always reappearing in the background.
Resolution:
We introduced a custom StandardWindow class that appends each new Toplevel window to an open_windows list attached to the main root.
On closing a window, the class removes itself from this list and (if any other option windows remain) brings the last opened window to the foreground.
This solution was integrated without relying on global variables outside the main UI class, adhering to a Single Source of Truth (SSOT) methodology by attaching the open-windows list to the root object.
Window Size and Layout Adjustments:

Hurdle: The UI windows did not have consistent, standard sizes, and certain controls (e.g., the “Save and Exit” button in Settings) were not positioned as desired.
Resolutions:
Updated default sizes:
Main AI Assistant UI: Set to 500×600.
Memory Management Window: Set to 1400×500.
Settings Window: Set to 400×300 (ensuring that the “Save and Exit” button is placed clearly beneath the review/other controls).
Reworked the layout of the Settings window so that all manual tag management controls (approved tags list, new tag entry, add/remove buttons) and the “Review Untagged Entries” button appear in a scrollable area, with the “Save and Exit” button placed clearly below them.
Document Upload – Chunking and Tagging:

Hurdle: There was a requirement to process uploaded documents by breaking them into text chunks and auto-assigning tags for LLM memory. However, the initial code did not include a separate “Manage Upload Memory” interface.
Resolution (Implemented in Code but Not Exposed in the Current UI):
The document upload routine was modified so that after a document is read, it is processed via a chunking function (from text_utils.chunk_text()), and each chunk is auto-tagged using the auto-tagging module.
The resulting chunks, along with their auto-assigned tags, are inserted into a new database table (upload_chunks).
Note: Although this functionality is present in the code, the current version of desktop_ui.py does not include a button or dedicated window to review the uploaded chunks. Future work will integrate a “Manage Upload Memory” window into the UI.
Hurdles and How We Overcame Them
Persistent Settings vs. In-Memory Configuration:

We ensured that configuration changes (such as the auto-tag threshold) persist between runs by saving them to a JSON file (ui_settings.json), and loading them at startup. This SSOT approach avoids duplication of configuration data across modules.
Event and Focus Management for Toplevel Windows:

By removing the transient(master) call (in later iterations) where appropriate and using the StandardWindow class to manage the open-windows list, we overcame the issue of the main window always returning to the background and ensured a more predictable window ordering.
Ensuring Consistency Across UI Components:

We standardized the look and feel (dark theme colors, consistent button styles, and layout containers) across the entire UI. This was achieved by centralizing color definitions in the main UI class and applying them uniformly to each Toplevel window via the StandardWindow class.
Next Steps in the Plan
Integrate “Manage Upload Memory” UI:

Goal: Add a dedicated button (e.g., “Manage Upload Memory”) to the main UI that opens a new window listing records from the upload_chunks table.
Plan:
Create a new method (e.g., open_upload_memory_management()) modeled after the existing open_memory_management() but targeting the upload_chunks table.
Ensure that this new window follows the same StandardWindow pattern and inherits the SSOT configuration and color themes.
Provide sorting/filtering options if needed, without interfering with the conversation memory management.
LLM Integration:

Goal: Replace dummy responses with a local LLM (such as deepseek‑r1:8B via ollama) once the robust memory and prompt construction system is finalized.
Plan:
Define an interface module (e.g., inference.py) that abstracts the LLM call.
Ensure the prompt built by the advanced prompt builder is passed to this module.
Integrate error handling and fallback dummy responses to maintain SSOT integrity and minimize disruption to the rest of the code.
Enhanced File Processing:

Goal: Expand document ingestion capabilities (e.g., support for DOCX, PDFs with OCR, etc.) and integrate them with the memory system.
Plan:
Develop additional file processing modules that extend the functionality of text_utils.py.
Ensure that new file types are incorporated into the existing configuration (via a centralized config file) and stored in the appropriate database tables without altering existing schema (SSOT adherence).
Session and Context Management Improvements:

Goal: Implement features for summarizing or pruning long conversation histories.
Plan:
Add modules to periodically summarize conversation history.
Ensure that any context modifications update the central database and are reflected immediately in the UI.
Maintain a clear separation between static knowledge, conversation history, and uploaded document memory.
CI/CD and Automated Testing:

Goal: Set up a continuous integration pipeline to run unit and integration tests on each commit.
Plan:
Integrate the existing tests folder into a CI/CD tool (e.g., GitHub Actions).
Ensure that any new modules adhere to the current modular architecture and SSOT methodology.
Ensuring No Interference and SSOT Adherence
Centralized Configuration:
All configuration parameters (paths, thresholds, approved tags, etc.) are stored in a single JSON file (ui_settings.json) and loaded at startup. All modules reference this central source of truth.

Consistent UI Components:
The StandardWindow class is used for all pop-up windows, ensuring that window ordering, color themes, and sizing are consistent and managed from one location.

Modular and Isolated Functionality:
Each UI function (conversation memory management, document upload processing, settings, etc.) is encapsulated in its own method. This ensures that modifications in one area do not interfere with another.

Future-Proofing for LLM Integration:
The prompt-building and memory retrieval pipelines are already modularized. Future LLM calls will be abstracted in a dedicated inference module, keeping the codebase clean and in line with SSOT principles.

Addendum: Current System Capabilities and Limitations
Overview
At this checkpoint, the AI Assistant Brain Project has evolved into a modular system that integrates file upload, document processing, conversation logging, auto-tagging, and a unified UI. The system is designed to serve as the “brain” for a locally run AI assistant, with plans for future LLM integration. The core components have been implemented with scalability, extensibility, and a single source of truth (SSOT) methodology in mind.

Document Upload and Processing
Supported Formats:

The system currently supports text files (.txt) and PDF files (via PyMuPDF) for document ingestion.
Uploaded documents are processed asynchronously.
Text Chunking:

Documents are split into manageable text chunks using a custom chunking function (default size ≈ 500 words).
Each chunk is stored in a dedicated SQLite virtual table (text_chunks) that uses FTS5, enabling efficient semantic search.
Embeddings for each chunk are generated using the SentenceTransformer model (all-MiniLM-L6-v2) and stored as JSON strings.
Auto-Tagging:

An embedding-based auto-tagger is integrated into the processing pipeline.
The auto-tagger compares text embeddings with those derived from tag descriptions to suggest relevant tags.
Tags are stored in the database in a tags table, which now includes both tag names and descriptions.
There is scope for further refinement of tag descriptions to improve semantic matching.
Conversation Management
Logging Interactions:

Every user query and the corresponding (dummy) response are logged in the conversation_history table.
Each log entry includes the conversation ID, user message, assistant message, timestamp, and auto-generated tags.
A dedicated function (in conversation_logger.py) automatically runs the auto-tagger against the logged conversation text to assign tags.
Retrieval for Prompt Building:

Conversation history is retrievable via the get_conversation_context() function.
The advanced prompt builder composes a full prompt by merging static knowledge chunks, conversation history, and the current query.
This design enables future integration with an LLM for context-aware responses and personality development.
Tag Management
Database-Centric Tag Storage:

Approved tags are managed centrally in the database (table tags), which now includes a description column.
A dedicated tag manager module (tag_manager.py) provides functions to load, add, and remove tags from the database.
The UI settings menu has been updated to allow manual addition and removal of tags along with their descriptions.
Tags entered via the UI are persisted immediately, ensuring the auto-tagger and all related modules reference the same SSOT.
Current Limitations:

Tag descriptions require manual refinement to achieve optimal auto-tagging performance.
The system does not yet auto-generate descriptions for new tags, nor generate new tags at all; they must be provided by the user.
Existing schema changes (e.g., adding the description column) may require a database upgrade or migration. A helper function exists to perform an ALTER TABLE upgrade, but in some development instances, manual intervention may be necessary.
User Interface and Integration
Unified Desktop UI (Tkinter):

The desktop UI, built with Tkinter, provides an integrated interface for query submission, document upload, conversation history management, and tag management.
The UI displays conversation history, allows editing of individual records, and supports bulk tag updates.
Various components (e.g., settings, memory management, conversation viewer) have been designed with consistent dark theme styling and a focus on ease of use.
Flask Integration for File Uploads:

A Flask server is integrated to handle file uploads and related operations.
The Flask server runs in a background thread while the desktop UI remains the primary interface.
Inference Module
Current Behavior:
The inference module (in inference.py) currently generates dummy responses by combining the query, relevant knowledge chunks, and conversation history into a structured prompt.
This module serves as a placeholder for future integration with a local LLM, ensuring that the rest of the system remains decoupled from the actual inference mechanism.
Next Steps
LLM Integration:
Replace dummy responses with calls to a local large language model once the memory and prompt building systems are robust.
Enhanced Tag Description Refinement:
Refine tag descriptions based on empirical performance of the auto-tagger.
System Scalability and Optimization:
Monitor performance as the conversation history and document repository grow.
Consider additional indexing or vector search solutions if necessary.
Conclusion
The system has reached a stable state with key functionalities in place, including document ingestion, conversation logging, and auto-tagging with persistent tag management. This addendum provides a technical snapshot of the current capabilities and limitations, serving as a foundation for future enhancements as the project evolves toward a fully integrated, context-aware AI assistant.

